so we're gonna move on now and we're
gonna check where markets are because
the dow had as you know its third ever
worst day of trading joining us to
discuss all of this is Nouriel Roubini
he's a professor of economics at NYU
Stern and and Nouriel I you know I have
joked with you in the past the the
nickname that some on Wall Street have
called you Doctor Doom because you do
warn people about things that are right
in front of our faces so I'm gonna ask
you this question
do you see silver linings what do you
see that might be optimistic
looking forward economically as we
confront this growing crisis well for
now there is not much to be optimistic
what we can hope is that if if there's
gonna be the right fiscal stimulus that
has to be something of at least that 3%
of GDP this is gonna be a very severe
but short recession meaning the
recession already starting in this
quarter given the data or retail sales
that came out today so we'll have a q1
contraction acutely q2 contraction most
likely a q3 contraction but if we have
the monetary zwave right now if we
control the pandemics by doing really
systemic quarantines maybe by June July
the pandemic is stopped and maybe by the
fourth quarter of this year we have an
economic recovery so this gonna be more
severe than the global financial crisis
because it's front-loaded didn't take a
year and a half for having the collapse
of output didn't take us to get Lehman
Lehman got into one month rather than in
18 months and it could be shorter three
quarters rather than six seven that's
going to be very severe but the key
things that we need the fiscal stimulus
you know the Fed has done everything
under the sun that do more including
today the commercial paper facility but
unless you have some to do backstop
private demand that is collapsing
exports are collapsing consumption is
collapsing
residential investment is collapsing
capex is collapsing everything is
collapsing in the private sector so you
need to have the one age in the economy
that has the balance sheet they can
either spend more and or
transfer income to those who need it
I've been among the first one to propose
1,000 dollars every single u.s. resident
doesn't matter whether you're young or
old employed unemployed student formerly
employed partially employed hourly
worker contract or gig small business
everybody needs at least $1,000
otherwise we're gonna end up like in the
Great Depression on this point
nouriel it's truly a LaRoche thank you
so much for joining us I was gonna ask
you about the feds move today and if you
thought that might be somewhat helpful
especially given the stress that we have
been seen in the debt markets what do
you make of it
well it's useful because large firms
that are investment grade that even the
investment great firms now cannot issue
commercial paper let alone that those
are not investment great that's gonna
help those highly grade that firm the
reality is however is that the credit
market has completely shut down
there's no issuance of cielos of
leveraged loans of high-yield of
high-grade and we have trillions of
dollars of pauline angels or junk bonds
that have been issued with covenant
light and other types of junk of that
sort and we're gonna have a debt crisis
we've had a spike today in the last
month of high yield spreads from 300 to
800 to one month in 2015 16 we took
seven months between hours of 15 and
February of 16 for having the same kind
of spike that spike as occurred in one
month this is something we didn't even
see during the global financial crisis
this is not a problem with the stock
market falling 30% yes there will be a
welt effect the problem is in credit
market we're on the verge of a debt
crisis and while there'll be programs to
provide credit to those firms and
individuals that are illiquid but
solvent the reality is they in the
economy there has been so much issuance
of debt in the last two years call for
that especially that many companies are
gonna go bankrupt
regardless all this is gonna be a debt
crisis is not just a liquidity crisis so
Nouriel if that's the case what do you
make of this announcement that the Fed
just made in terms of starting
restarting the commercial paper facility
if the if that is one of the areas of
most acute stress does it make sense for
them to do that and how much is that
going to mitigate what's going on listen
if you are a triple-a or double-a or a
single a company issuing commercial
paper now you can have access to that
facility but if you are that
trillion-dollar of poly means of that
are triple B - you don't have access to
his facility if you're among those firms
that have issued something like 8
trillion dollars of junk bonds it is not
investment grade you don't have access
to that facility if you are any one of
dozens of millions of small and
medium-sized businesses and firms that
do not even have access to the bond
markets let alone to the corporate paper
market you're not going to be able to
have access to this facility you've
essentially the very top of the US
corporates does that actual F cash does
that are people a double a in single a
today cannot issue commercial paper and
we're gonna help them everybody else at
least 95% of corporate America and
businesses small medium sized and even
larger do not have access to this
facility so is it helpful yes it's
helpful to the Boeing's of the world to
the forth of the world to those kind of
firms is not gonna be available to
anybody else not even nobody else
meaning 95% of corporate America and all
firms of businesses do not have access
to this facility and will not have
access to this facility so let's not
exaggerate the importance of this small
facility then small in size and limited
to very very few firms that are highly
highly graded Nouriel I want I want to
go back to the stress that we are seen
in the debt markets I just want to get
your take on this because last year or
the year before we were often talking
about just record numbers of stock
buybacks of share repurchases how much
do you think that factors into all of
this well there has been a massive
increase in the last decade of corporate
debt corporate debt as a share of GDP as
a share of corporate income as a share
of any measure of ability to pay
as exploded is an all-time high and part
of it was of course
firm's boring we invest into capital
spending but we know that the last few
years there's been a massive increase in
share buybacks some of those share
buybacks have been occurring by using
the cash that really profitable firms
add but also less profitable firms there
were those that were junk firms have
issued a huge amount of that to do share
buybacks this was financial engineering
that was boosting artificially earnings
per share that was boosting artificially
the value of these firms in the stock
market that was making his firms even
more leverage than where before there
was a crazy dangerous and I would say
reckless form of financial engineering
and therefore those firms that were
already highly leveraged that use shared
buybacks financed with debt including
many of that even occurring in private
equity are gonna be now under severe
stress they were highly leveraged before
there are more leverage now because of
what they did
so Nouriel I am curious I just want to
point out you mentioned $1,000 and I
quoted you I tweeted your quote out to
everybody on Twitter that the Congress
needs to send $1,000 to everybody
regardless as soon as possible Facebook
is giving its employees $1,000 they've
just announced that but as Congress is
now debating a stimulus package at the
top of this discussion with you and we
should point out you're going to be with
us for several more minutes another 20
minutes even if we go to break you
mentioned that any stimulus package
fiscal package needs to be 6 per 3
percent of GDP so we're talking minimum
six hundred billion dollars accurate
they're talking possibly a trillion
dollars how quickly can the Congress get
that money to stimulate the economy so
that we see positive results well first
of all I fear that doing even at 200
billion dollar fiscal package is gonna
take us time they've been discussing the
Pelosi bill in the house for over a week
now and that's only 50 billion and that
has not even been passed because the
Republic and the Senate are dragging
their feet on permanent paid sick leave
or things of that sort right so we're at
50 billion and then we are talking now
about 800
we're not gonna reach 800 until the
stock market is done 40 or 50 percent
and then once they market is crushed
once the corn is crushed we're gonna get
there
think about it during the global
financial crisis was only after Lehman a
year and a half after the crisis started
that we did the bailout of the banks and
it was only after Obama came to power
essentially April of 2009 when we had
the joint g20 London conference that led
us to a massive coordinated global
fiscal stimulus the reality is that
we're in an election year what the
Democrats want and what that the
Republican one is completely different
we need at least 600 billion possibly
800 billion plus liquid is the support
and other things that the fred can do
but we're not gonna get there in my view
for another two or three months because
when I start with fifty nine hundred
then 200 and once then everything is
imploding once de GDP number for the
first quarter gonna show us a freefall
once you can have a stock market form
not 30 percent but 40 or 50 maybe at
that point the markets are going to
force the hand of the politician in
Congress then we're gonna get the fiscal
stimulus but it's going to be too late
and also our health response is too
little too late today in terms of the
number of the contagion we look exactly
exactly like Italy two weeks ago and
we're not doing even the kind of things
that Italy is doing italy's as full
current time everybody everywhere in the
country 60 million people are locked up
at all we're still a situation in which
anybody can go anywhere we have to do
what italy is done we should have done
it two weeks ago
therefore the contagion in the united
states is gonna be much worse than in it
and it mark my word two weeks from now
we can discuss it gonna be much worse
than italy so we're not dealing with the
health crisis and we're not dealing with
the economic crisis we're not dealing
with the debt crisis and we're not doing
the fiscal stop the fiscal slap should
have been passed by congress two weeks
ago it's gonna take us another two
months until we get to three percent of
GDP it's not gonna happen before
unfortunately right Nouriel i hope that
some members of congress are listening
right now Nouriel Roubini
is gonna stay with us thank you so much
for your initial insights there hey
investors sack Guzman here are you
interested in learning more about the
markets and getting the latest financial
news well then click right here to
subscribe to our Yahoo Finance youtube
channel get the latest up-to-the-minute
market analysis big interviews in the
world of finance and information on how
to manage your money every day wherever
you are